Add Compression Dictionary Transport docs (#38722)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/guides/compression_dictionary_transport/index.md

---
title: Compression Dictionary Transport
slug: Web/HTTP/Guides/Compression_dictionary_transport
page-type: guide
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

**Compression Dictionary Transport** is a way of using a shared compression dictionary to dramatically reduce the transport size of HTTP responses.

Compression algorithms are used in HTTP to reduce the size of resources downloaded over the network, reducing bandwidth cost and the time taken to load pages. Lossless HTTP compression algorithms work by finding redundancy in the source: for example, places where text like function is repeated. They then include just one copy of the redundant string, and replace occurrences of it in the resource with references to that copy. Since the references are shorter than the string, the compressed version is shorter.

For example, take this JavaScript:

```javascript
function a() {
  console.log("Hello World!");
}

function b() {
  console.log("I am here");
}
```

This could be compressed by replacing repeated strings with references to a previous location and number of characters, like in this example:

```Compressed
function a() {
  console.log("Hello World!");
}

> [0:9]b[10:20]I am here[42:]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[0:9]b[10:20]I am here[42:46]
```

Reviewer: Yeah, but it wasn't actually until the end of the file since you're still in the same file ;-)

Author: 🤦‍♂️

```

Where `[0:9]` refers to copying the 9 characters starting at character 0. Note this is a simple example to demonstrate the concept and the actual algorithms are more complex than this.

Clients can then easily reverse the compression after download to recreate the original, uncompressed resource.

Algorithms like {{glossary("Brotli compression")}} and {{glossary("Zstandard compression")}} achieve even greater efficiency by allowing the use of dictionaries of commonly encountered strings, so you don't need any copies of them in the compressed resource. These algorithms ship with a pre-defined, default dictionary that is used when compressing HTTP responses.

> Compression Dictionary Transport builds on this by enabling you to provide your own dictionary which is especially applicable to a particular set of resources. The compression algorithm can then use as a source of strings when compressing and decompressing the resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compression Dictionary Transport builds on this by enabling you to provide your own dictionary which is especially applicable to a particular set of resources. The compression algorithm can then reference it as a source of bytes when compressing and decompressing the resource.
```

Assuming the references from the previous example are included in that common dictionary, this could be further reduced to this:

```Compressed

> [d1]a[d2]Hello World![d3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[d0:9]a[d10:20]Hello World![d42:46]
```

Reviewer: Just trying to make it clear that the dictionary is just a reference byte stream where `d1` might imply specific tokenization.

> [d1]b[d2]I am here[d3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[d0:9]b[d10:20]I am here[d42:46]
```

```

The dictionary can either be a separate resource that is only required for Compression Dictionary Transport. Or it can be an existing resource that is needed by the website.

For example, suppose your website uses a JavaScript library. You would typically load a specific version of the library, and might include the version name in the name of the library, like `<script src="my-library.v1.js">`. When the browser loads your page, it will fetch a copy of the library as a subresource.

If you then update to v2 of the library, most of the library's code will probably have stayed the same. So sites can greatly reduce the size of the download for `my-library.v2.js` by telling the browser to use `my-library.v1.js` as a compression dictionary for `my-library.v2.js`. Then all strings that are common between v1 and v2 don't need to be included in the download for v2, because the browser already has them. Most of the download size of `my-library.v2.js` is then just the delta between the two versions.

> While text compression is incredibly effiction, creating files that are are often 25% the size of uncompressed files, delta compression allows for an order of magnitude more compression with [examples files of only 2% site](https://github.com/WICG/compression-dictionary-transport/blob/main/examples.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While text compression is incredibly effiction, creating files that are are often 25% the size of uncompressed files, delta compression allows for an order of magnitude more compression with [examples files of only 2% size](https://github.com/WICG/compression-dictionary-transport/blob/main/examples.md).
```

```http
Vary: accept-encoding, available-dictionary
```

An optional `id` can also be provided in the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js", id="dictionary-12345"
```

In which case the value will be sent in future requests in the {{HTTPHeader("Dictionary-ID")}} header:

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
Dictionary-ID: "dictionary-12345"
```

## Separate dictionary

Alternatively, an HTML document can specify one or more separate dictionaries with {{HTMLElement("Link#compression-dictionary", "&lt;link rel=&quot;compression-dictionary&quot;&gt;")}} elements:

```html
<link rel="compression-dictionary" href="/dictionary.dat" />
```

This dictionary is then downloaded by the browser during idle time, and that response must include the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} HTTP Header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js"
```

> From here the process is similar to the previous example when a matching resources is requested.

Reviewer: Worth adding a Link HTTP header example?

```
Link: </dictionary.dat>; rel="compression-dictionary"
```

Author: Done!

## Creating dictionary compressed responses

> Delta-compressed dictioresourcesnaries use the Brotli or ZStandard algothms, a custom dictionary, but also include a magic header and embedded dictionary hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delta-compressed dictionaries use the Brotli or ZStandard algothms with a custom dictionary, but also include a magic header and embedded dictionary hash.
```

Author: Had spotted this one already myself!

> These can be created dynamically, but it is often better to create these in advance at build time. This will require deciding how many delta-compressed versions to create — for the last version only, or for the last X versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These can be created dynamically, but for static resources it can be better to create these in advance at build time. This will require deciding how many delta-compressed versions to create — for the last version only, or for the last X versions.
```

```Compressed
[d0:9]a[d10:20]Hello World![d42:46]
[d0:9]b[d10:20]I am here[d42:46]
```

The dictionary can either be a separate resource that is only required for Compression Dictionary Transport. Or it can be an existing resource that is needed by the website.

For example, suppose your website uses a JavaScript library. You would typically load a specific version of the library, and might include the version name in the name of the library, like `<script src="my-library.v1.js">`. When the browser loads your page, it will fetch a copy of the library as a subresource.

If you then update to v2 of the library, most of the library's code will probably have stayed the same. So sites can greatly reduce the size of the download for `my-library.v2.js` by telling the browser to use `my-library.v1.js` as a compression dictionary for `my-library.v2.js`. Then all strings that are common between v1 and v2 don't need to be included in the download for v2, because the browser already has them. Most of the download size of `my-library.v2.js` is then just the delta between the two versions.

> While text compression is incredibly effiction, creating files that are are often 25% the size of uncompressed files, delta compression allows for an order of magnitude more compression with [examples files of only 2% size](https://github.com/WICG/compression-dictionary-transport/blob/main/examples.md).

Author: I understand the concern, but think with the removal of the specific 2% example (which was a bit cherry picked!) it's less of a concern. Being an "order of magnitude" better is an important part of this technology and the fact it uses standards like Brotli and Zstd underneath (but with a better dictionary!) means it should be the "better" than those. If it was a closed-source, non-standard, or a completely new algorithm I'd more understand your concern.

So will go with your suggestion.

```

An optional `id` can also be provided in the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js", id="dictionary-12345"
```

In which case the value will be sent in future requests in the {{HTTPHeader("Dictionary-ID")}} header:

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
Dictionary-ID: "dictionary-12345"
```

## Separate dictionary

Alternatively, an HTML document can specify one or more separate dictionaries with {{HTMLElement("Link#compression-dictionary", "&lt;link rel=&quot;compression-dictionary&quot;&gt;")}} elements:

```html
<link rel="compression-dictionary" href="/dictionary.dat" />
```

Or, alternatively, with {{HTTPHeader("Link")}} header:

```http
Link: </dictionary.dat>; rel="compression-dictionary"
```

This dictionary is then downloaded by the browser during idle time, and that response must include the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} HTTP Header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js"
```

From here the process is similar to the previous example when a matching resources is requested.

## Creating dictionary-compressed responses

> Dictionary-compressed (also known as delta-compressed) responses use the Brotli or ZStandard algothms, a custom dictionary, but also include a magic header and embedded dictionary hash.

Reviewer 2: > Dictionary-compressed (also known as delta-compressed)

I think it's always best to be explicit and consistent about definitions. This page sometimes calls them dictionary-compressed and sometimes delta-compressed. It would be better to choose just one. If we want to introduce the term "delta-compressed" as well, I think we should do so up where we describe dictionary-based compression, and we could say something like "Responses that are compressed using a dictionary are called _dictionary-compressed responses_ or sometimes _delta-compressed responses_.

Author: Checking out [the spec](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpbis-compression-dictionary) both are used (with dictionary-compressed being more prevalent at 12 examples compared to 4 for delta-compressed).

I think dictionary-compressed is technically more accurate but delta-compressed is more often used in conversation.

@pmeenan has there been any discussion during standardisation on these two terms?

Reviewer: Delta-compressed is more applicable for the case where a static resource is used as a dictionary for a newer version of itself. Dictionary-compressed is the more generic case that covers both that and a stand-alone bag-of-bytes dictionary.

Author: OK I've cleaned up most instances of "delta-compressed" in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38722/commits/67d3a3d2ec4c33966064e8504e33f6cdf7be1032 leaving just one. Resolving.

> Dictionary-compressed (also known as delta-compressed) responses use the Brotli or ZStandard algothms, a custom dictionary, but also include a magic header and embedded dictionary hash.
> 
> These can be created dynamically, but for static resources it can be better to create these in advance at build time. This will require deciding how many delta-compressed versions to create — for the last version only, or for the last X versions.

Reviewer 2: That aside I'm not super-sure what the first paragraph here is saying. We already know that they use Brotli or ZStandard, and we already know that they use a dictionary. Perhaps we could simplify?

```suggestion
Dictionary-compressed responses can be created dynamically, but for static resources it can be better to create these in advance at build time. This will require deciding how many delta-compressed versions to create — for the last version only, or for the last X versions.
```

Author: There's a few intents behind the first paragraph:

1) I don't think I have explicitly mentioned that it needs Brotli or ZStd compression, and it explains why there's two following sections under this section. In the Overview I've said that "Algorithms _like_ [Brotli compression](https://pr38722.review.mdn.allizom.net/en-US/docs/Glossary/Brotli_compression) and [Zstandard compression](https://pr38722.review.mdn.allizom.net/en-US/docs/Glossary/Zstandard_compression) achieve even greater efficiency by allowing the use of dictionaries" (added emphasis on _like_), and also briefly mentioned the Accept/Content-Encoding values for these, but until now I've not explicitly stated that only those two can be used for this. I want to be clear that things like `gzip` are not supported (since they don't allow for a separate dictionary) and that if a new compression standard comes out that also supports dictionaries (or there is one out there already!) then it's not automatically supported, since it's currently limited to just those two. At the very least we'd need to register new Accept/Content-Encoding values to add them to the standard.

2) It's Brotli and Zstd with a couple of twists: you need a magic header and the hash to be embedded in the file.

The middle point (you need a dictionary) is probably more obvious and was more used for the way I write the sentence ("You need A, B, and C"). Happy to drop that one.

So I'd like to keep the first paragraph or some variant of it to get those points across. I'm open a better way of wording this to make those intents clearer.

Author: Changed the first paragraph to:

> Dictionary-compressed responses can use either the Brotli or ZStandard algothms, with two extra requirements: they must also include a magic header and embedded dictionary hash.

> Example command line options are shown below, and these can be configured in build tools if they do not natively support this.
> 
> ### Delta-compressed Brotli (`dcb`) a resource
> 
> Assuming the dictionary file is `dictionary.txt` and the file to be compressed is `data.text`, this will create a `dcb`-compressed file `data.txt.dcb` that includes the magic header and embedded dictionary hash:
> 
> ```bash
> echo -en '\xffDCB' > data.txt.dcb && \
> openssl dgst -sha256 -binary dictionary.txt >> data.txt.dcb && \
> brotli --stdout -D dictionary.txt data.txt >> data.txt.dcb
> ```
> 
> ### Delta-compressed Brotli (`dcz`) a resource
> 
> Assuming the dictionary file is `dictionary.txt` and the file to be compressed is `data.text`, this will create a `dcb`-compressed file `data.txt.dcb` that includes the magic header and embedded dictionary hash:
> 
> ```bash
> echo -en '\x5e\x2a\x4d\x18\x20\x00\x00\x00' > data.txt.dcz && \
> openssl dgst -sha256 -binary dictionary.txt >> data.txt.dcz && \
> zstd -D dictionary.txt -f -o tmp.zstd data.txt && \
> cat tmp.zstd >> data.txt.dcz
> ```

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of repetition here which makes it hard to read. Maybe:

````suggestion
Given a dictionary file named `dictionary.text` and a file to compress named `data.text`, the following Bash command will compress the file using Brotli, producing a compressed file named `data.txt.dcb`:

```bash
echo -en '\xffDCB' > data.txt.dcb && \
openssl dgst -sha256 -binary dictionary.txt >> data.txt.dcb && \
brotli --stdout -D dictionary.txt data.txt >> data.txt.dcb
```

Given the same input files, the following Bash command will compress the file using ZStandard, producing a compressed file named `data.txt.dcz`:

```bash
echo -en '\x5e\x2a\x4d\x18\x20\x00\x00\x00' > data.txt.dcz && \
openssl dgst -sha256 -binary dictionary.txt >> data.txt.dcz && \
zstd -D dictionary.txt -f -o tmp.zstd data.txt && \
cat tmp.zstd >> data.txt.dcz
```

Note that you will need {{glossary("OpenSSL")}} installed locally as well as Brotli or ZStandard.
````

## Restrictions

Compression algorithms are at risk of security attacks, so there are a number of restrictions for Compression Dictionary Transport, including:

> - Dictionaries must be served on the same-origin as the resource using the dictionary.
> - Delta-compressed resources must be same-origin to the document origin, or follow the [CORS](/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CORS) rules, and so be requested with the [`crossorigin`](/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin) attribute and served with an appropriate {{HTTPHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin")}} header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dictionaries must same-origin with the resource using the dictionary.
- Delta-compressed resources must be same-origin with the document origin, or follow the [CORS](/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CORS) rules, and so be requested with the [`crossorigin`](/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin) attribute and served with an appropriate {{HTTPHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin")}} header.
```

I think we usually express this as "same-origin with"? But open to better alternatives...

- Dictionaries are bound by the usual HTTP Cache partitioning and so cannot be shared between origins even if they download the same resources. The dictionary will need to be downloaded again for each origin.

> Additionally, Compression Dictionary Transport could themselves becoming tracking vectors so browsers may restrict this feature when cookies are disabled or when other extra privacy protections are enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, dictionaries could themselves becoming tracking vectors so browsers may restrict this feature when cookies are disabled or when other extra privacy protections are enabled.
```

Author: Looks good, but spotted another grammar issue:

```suggestion
Additionally, dictionaries could themselves become tracking vectors so browsers may restrict this feature when cookies are disabled or when other extra privacy protections are enabled.
```

---
title: Compression Dictionary Transport
slug: Web/HTTP/Guides/Compression_dictionary_transport
page-type: guide
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

**Compression Dictionary Transport** is a way of using a shared compression dictionary to dramatically reduce the transport size of HTTP responses.

## Overview

Compression algorithms are used in HTTP to reduce the size of resources downloaded over the network, reducing bandwidth cost and the time taken to load pages. Lossless HTTP compression algorithms work by finding redundancy in the source: for example, places where text like the string `"function"` is repeated. They then include just one copy of the redundant string, and replace occurrences of it in the resource with references to that copy. Since the references are shorter than the string, the compressed version is shorter.

> [!NOTE]

> > A previous attempt at this technology was called SDCH (Shared Dictionary Compression for HTTP) but was never widely supported and was removed in 2017. Compression Dictionary Transport is a better specified and more robust implementation with broader industry consensus.

Author: @wbamberg , since you've already reviewed the guide, not that I made this addition. There are still a few references to SDCH around the web (e.g. https://caniuse.com/sdch) which would be confused with this so I thought it best to explain the relationship.

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
```

The server can then respond with an appropriately-encoded response with the chosen content encoding given in the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Encoding")}} header:

```http
Content-Encoding: dcb
```

If the response is cacheable, it must include a {{HTTPHeader("Vary")}} header to prevent caches serving dictionary-compressed resources to clients that don't support them or serving the response compressed with the wrong dictionary:

```http
Vary: accept-encoding, available-dictionary
```

An optional `id` can also be provided in the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js", id="dictionary-12345"
```

If this is provided, the value will be sent in future requests in the {{HTTPHeader("Dictionary-ID")}} header:

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
Dictionary-ID: "dictionary-12345"
```

## Separate dictionary

> Alternatively, an HTML document can specify one or more separate dictionaries by including a {{HTMLElement("link")}} element whose [`rel`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel) attribute is set to `compression-dictionary`:
> 
> ```html
> <link rel="compression-dictionary" href="/dictionary.dat" />
> ```
> 
> Alternatively a dictionary can be included using the {{HTTPHeader("Link")}} header:
> 
> ```http
> Link: </dictionary.dat>; rel="compression-dictionary"
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Sometimes an HTML document will want to provide a compression dictionary to the browser which isn't a resource that the browser is downloading anyway via an element such as a {{htmlelement("script")} tag. In this situation you have two options:

- Include a {{HTMLElement("link")}} element whose [`rel`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel) attribute is set to `compression-dictionary`:

   ```html
   <link rel="compression-dictionary" href="/dictionary.dat" />
   ```

- Reference the dictionary using the {{HTTPHeader("Link")}} header:

    ```http
    Link: </dictionary.dat>; rel="compression-dictionary"
    ```
````

Something like this anyway. I think it's good to introduce this use case first, and the "Alternatively/alternatively" duplication was a bit confusing (the first is an alternative to the preceding section, but the second is an alternative to the first method).

Author: Sounds good, but gonna tweak the intro text a bit:

```suggestion
An HTML document can also provide a compression dictionary to the browser which isn't a resource that the browser is downloading anyway via an element such as a {{htmlelement("script")} tag. There are two methods to do this:

- Include a {{HTMLElement("link")}} element whose [`rel`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel) attribute is set to `compression-dictionary`:

    ```html
    <link rel="compression-dictionary" href="/dictionary.dat" />
    ```

- Reference the dictionary using the {{HTTPHeader("Link")}} header:

    ```http
    Link: </dictionary.dat>; rel="compression-dictionary"
    ```
```

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
```

The server can then respond with an appropriately-encoded response with the chosen content encoding given in the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Encoding")}} header:

```http
Content-Encoding: dcb
```

If the response is cacheable, it must include a {{HTTPHeader("Vary")}} header to prevent caches serving dictionary-compressed resources to clients that don't support them or serving the response compressed with the wrong dictionary:

```http
Vary: accept-encoding, available-dictionary
```

An optional `id` can also be provided in the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js", id="dictionary-12345"
```

If this is provided, the value will be sent in future requests in the {{HTTPHeader("Dictionary-ID")}} header:

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
Dictionary-ID: "dictionary-12345"
```

## Separate dictionary

> An HTML document can also provide a compression dictionary to the browser which isn't a resource that the browser is downloading anyway via an element such as a {{htmlelement("script")} tag. There are two methods to do this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An HTML document can also provide a compression dictionary to the browser which isn't a resource that the browser is downloading anyway via an element such as a {{htmlelement("script")}} tag. There are two methods to do this:
```

---
title: Compression Dictionary Transport
slug: Web/HTTP/Guides/Compression_dictionary_transport
page-type: guide
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

**Compression Dictionary Transport** is a way of using a shared compression dictionary to dramatically reduce the transport size of HTTP requests.

Modern compression formats such as {{glossary("Brotli compression")}} and {{glossary("Zstandard compression")}} allow the use of dictionaries of frequently used data to further increase compression over just referencing those from within the file being compressed. Typically, for HTTP requests, this uses the pre-defined static dictionary included in that format (for example [the Brotli static dictionary is available in the source code](https://github.com/google/brotli/blob/master/csharp/org/brotli/dec/Dictionary.cs)).

> Compression Dictionary Transport allows the use of specifying a resource which can be used as a dictionary for future requests. This can either be a specific dictionary file, or an existing resource (for example, using `app.v1.js` as a dictionary when downloading `app.v2.js`). This can result in a huge savings in subsequent file download sizes and hence time. In the `app.vX.js` example, basically only the delta would need to be download and the common bytes could be referenced from the original `app.v1.js` file that is already downloaded.

Reviewer 2: It's possible that I'm just an idiot, but I think this guide would benefit from stepping back a bit and explaining more about compression dictionaries, shared compression dictionaries, and how and why a developer might want to use them. This guide is quite bare-bones: "these are the controls you need to twiddle in order to use this feature", assuming that someone already understands what the feature is and how at a use-case level we might want to use it.

I mean naively, someone might ask something like "if I want to provide a compression dictionary, what format does it need to be in?".

As I understand it, the story is something like this:

-------------

Compression algorithms are used in HTTP to reduce the size of resources downloaded over the network, reducing bandwidth cost and the time taken to load pages. HTTP compression algorithms work by finding redundancy in the source: for example, places where text like `function` is repeated. They then include just one copy of the redundant string, and replace occurrences of it in the resource with identifiers for the string. Since the identifiers are shorter than the string, the compressed version is shorter. Algorithms like Brotli achieve even greater efficiency by shipping with a dictionary containing commonly encountered strings, so you don't need any copies of them in the compressed resource (aside, I thought this: https://www.debugbear.com/blog/shared-compression-dictionaries#text-compression-with-and-without-a-shared-compression-dictionary-whats-the-difference was a very helpful diagram here).

Compression dictionary transport builds on this by enabling you to provide your own dictionary which is especially applicable to a particular set of resources, which the compression algorithm can then use as a source of strings when compressing and decompressing the resource.

For example, suppose your website uses a JavaScript library. You would typically load a specific version of the library, and might include the version name in the name of the library, like `<script src="my-library.v1.js">`. When the browser loads your page, it will fetch a copy of the library as a subresource.

If you then update to `v2` of the library, most of the library's code will probably have stayed the same. So you can greatly reduce the size of the download for `my-library.v2.js` by telling the browser to use `my-library.v1.js` as a compression dictionary for `my-library.v2.js`. Then all strings that are common between `v1` and `v2` don't need to be included in the download for `v2`, because the browser already has them. Most of the download size of `my-library.v2.js` is then just the delta between the two versions.

-------------

Is that more or less correct? If so, I think we ought to say something like that here.

Author: Yeah that's more or less correct. Will expand to basically include that with a few tweaks.

And those diagrams are from a Googler's presentations (link in that post) so we can include them as they are not owned by DebugBear.

Author: OK I've added that (including the diagram but as an inline code sample, so it's more easily editted in the future). Also added a few more details on formats, examples on how to create the resources, and some restrictions. PTAL.

## Existing resource as a dictionary

> To use a resource as a dictionary the resource will include the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} HTTP Header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a resource as a dictionary the resource will include the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} HTTP response Header:
```

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js"
```

> When a resource is requested (for example, `app.v2.js`) that matches this header, the request will include a SHA-356 hash of the available disctionary in the {{HTTPHeader("Available-Dictionary")}} HTTP Header, along with a `dcb` or `dcz` {{HTTPHeader("Accept-Encoding")}} HTTP Header (for delta compression brotli or zstd as appropriate):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a subsequent resource is requested (for example, `app.v2.js`) that matches the specified pattern, the request will include a SHA-256 hash of the available disctionary in the {{HTTPHeader("Available-Dictionary")}} HTTP Header, along with `dcb` and/or `dcz` values in the {{HTTPHeader("Accept-Encoding")}} HTTP Header (for delta compression brotli or zstd as appropriate):
```

```http
Accept-Encoding: gzip, br, zstd, dcb, dcz
Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
```

> The server can then respond {{HTTPHeader("Content-Encoding")}} HTTP Header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server can then respond with an appropriately-encoded response and content encoding in the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Encoding")}} HTTP Header:
```

```http
Content-Encoding: dcb
```

If the response is cacheable, it MUST include a {{HTTPHeader("Vary")}} to prevent caches serving dictionary-compressed resources to clients that don't support them or serving the response compressed with the wrong dictionary:

```http
Vary: accept-encoding, available-dictionary
```

An optional `id` can also be provided in the {{HTTPHeader("Use-As-Dictionary")}} header:

```http
Use-As-Dictionary: match="/js/app.*.js", id="dictionary-12345"
```

> In which case it will be used in the future requests along with the SHA-256 hash of the dictionary enclosed in colons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In which case the value will be sent in future requests in the {{HTTPHeader("Dictionary-ID")}} header:
```
